Discussion (#194)
SW709E19/Report: report/ChapterEvaluation/Discussion.tex

The fact that we had a Sprint Retrospective meeting every two weeks meant that we often took the time to reflect upon our process, find issues and discuss possible improvements.
In relation to this Rasmus introduced the Starfish method for Sprint Retrospective meetings, see \autoref{sec:sprint-log-3-retro}, which improved our ability to identify both positive and negative aspects of our process.

The fact that we did not have group rooms this semester made it inconvenient to arrange meetings where work could be discussed and completed in collaboration.
A consequence of this was that internal communication and sharing of knowledge was affected.
The Daily Scrum meeting helped us in this regard since it introduced transparency internally in the group since most project-related tasks were performed individually and not in collaboration on campus.
Although attendance at the Daily Scrum meetings was a problem at the beginning of the project, we found it very effective to introduce a penalty for missing a meeting, i.e. having to bring cake for the next group meeting.
We used the VoIP application Discord for the Daily Scrum meetings since we rarely were able to have the meeting in person.

> Discord also served as a virtual group room which people could enter to discuss and collaborate on tasks quickly and straightforwardly whenever the need arose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Discord also served as a virtual group room which people could enter to discuss and collaborate on tasks quickly and efficiently whenever the need arose.
```

The consequence was that some tasks were considered unfinished when the sprint ended, and this led to inconsistencies with our velocity.
Even though most of the work on a task might have been completed in one sprint, the story points would be attributed to the sprint where the review was finished, i.e. the following sprint.
This was a problem for larger tasks with many story points since this meant more story points would be inaccurately attributed.
To fix this, the review process should have been taken into account when planning towards the end of a sprint.
Alternatively, a review of a task could be considered as a separate task with its own amount of story points.

Another useful method we used was setting explicit deadlines for the completion of tasks (excluding review).
We decided to introduce these deadlines towards the end of the project, and this proved useful in motivating us to complete tasks sooner rather than later.
In relation to this, we experienced that sometimes deadlines were missed, and we learned that it was crucial to agree on the importance of meeting our deadlines once set.

> We did not define what should happen once a deadline was missed, but this may be useful to do in a future project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We did not define what should happen once a deadline was missed, but this could be useful to do in a future project.
```

The collaboration and help provided by our supervisor was very helpful this semester.
The weekly meetings we had arranged with the supervisor furthermore assured that we would not miss out on any feedback, which we otherwise could have missed if the meetings only were scheduled when deemed necessary.

> Another useful service provided by Aalborg University was the grant we were permitted to purchase hardware, as described in \autoref{sec:sensordevice}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another useful service provided by Aalborg University was the grant we were permitted to purchase hardware, as described in~\autoref{sec:sensordevice}.
```

The grant allowed us to work with actual hardware and therefore increased the possibilities of the project's scope.

A flaw in our development of the system was that the system was not properly separated from the prototype.
After the prototype had been completed, we started polishing it and developing it further into the current version of the system.
Instead, we should have evaluated the experiences gained from the prototype more thoroughly and used this knowledge to start the development of a new system.

> This could possibly have avoided some issues such as the system's dependency on GCP, which is described in more detail in \autoref{sec:discussion-future-work}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This could possibly have avoided some issues such as the system's dependency on GCP, which is described in more detail in~\autoref{sec:discussion-future-work}.
```

\subsection{Fulfilment of the Problem Statement}

The problem statement used to guide the project was as follows:

\begin{center}
    \textit{How can a cheap, flexible and easy to install solution be developed to collect, store, and serve sensor data from manufacturing companies, to verify if predictive maintenance is applicable?}
\end{center}

> The developed system described in \autoref{par:implementation} successfully collects, stores and serves sensor data in a manner according to the system design presented in \autoref{par:design}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The developed system described in~\autoref{par:implementation} successfully collects, stores and serves sensor data in a manner according to the system design presented in~\autoref{par:design}.
```

However, the problem statement also requires the proposed solution to be \textit{cheap}, \textit{flexible} and \textit{easy to install}.
Whether or not the developed system lives up to these qualities is discussed in the following.

The \textbf{cost} of the developed system stems from two things: hardware and GCP services.
The hardware is comprised of an ESP32 development board with a connected MPU-6050 sensor and a Raspberry Pi 3 Model B+.
The ESP32 costs 79 DKK \cite{ESP32ArduinoTech}, the MPU-6050 costs 29 DKK \cite{MPU-6050} and the Raspberry Pi costs 339 DKK \cite{Raspberry-Pi}.

> These prices are minimal compared to the prices listed by the existing solutions described in \autoref{cha:existing-solutions} which cost several hundred USD for the devices themselves, excluding data plan fees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These prices are minimal compared to the prices listed by the existing solutions described in~\autoref{cha:existing-solutions} which cost several hundred USD for the devices themselves, excluding data plan fees.
```

The difference in price is made possible because the system we have developed is only intended to be used for a short time, while the solutions they offer are meant to be reliable for far longer.
The cost of the developed system may however increase if further work is done.
This could for example involve packaging of the sensor device or upgrading hardware components to increase the system's capabilities.

> As mentioned in \autoref{}, the cost induced by GCP depends on how much data the system is processing.

Reviewer: Tom ref?

> As mentioned in \autoref{}, the cost induced by GCP depends on how much data the system is processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned in~\autoref{}, the cost induced by GCP depends on how much data the system is processing.
```

The cost will therefore vary depending on how extensive a given company wants the solution to be.
The section presented an estimation of the cost if the system was to have 25 sensor devices each sending a sample every minute, which would cost 267 USD or 1789.55 DKK per month.
However, because the system is intended as a short term installation to showcase the possible benefits of predictive maintenance and not a full-scale predictive maintenance system, the cost induced by GCP can be kept to a minimum by limiting the number of devices deployed.

The \textbf{flexibility} of the system refers to its ability to support predictive maintenance of a wide variety of machines, and more specifically how many different types of sensors the system supports.

> In its current state, the system only collects accelerometer measurements used for vibration analysis, and this type of analysis is only applicable for some types of machines as depicted by \autoref{fig:predictiveTechnologies} in \autoref{sec:proactive-maintenance} (\nameref{sec:proactive-maintenance}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In its current state, the system only collects accelerometer measurements used for vibration analysis, and this type of analysis is only applicable for some types of machines as depicted by \autoref{fig:predictiveTechnologies} in~\autoref{sec:proactive-maintenance} (\nameref{sec:proactive-maintenance}).
```

> Since the ESP32 supports common communication protocols, as described in \autoref{sec:sensordevice}, it is compatible with a wide variety of different sensor types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the ESP32 supports common communication protocols, as described in~\autoref{sec:sensordevice}, it is compatible with a wide variety of different sensor types.
```

However, the firmware for the sensors has to be developed for the system to be able to collect data from them.

> This was taken into account in the design of the data format described in \autoref{cha:datastructure}, and the system is therefore able to store the new type of sensor values in the database without any required backend changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This was taken into account in the design of the data format described in~\autoref{cha:datastructure}, and the system is therefore able to store the new type of sensor values in the database without any required backend changes.
```

The \textbf{easy to install} aspect of the system is determined by the physical installation of the sensor device and gateway as well as the configuration of the sensor devices after installation.

> The physical placement of the sensor device on industrial machines has not been a focus in this project because it lies well outside the study regulations for the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The physical placement of the sensor device on industrial machines has not been a focus in this project because it is unrelated to the study regulations for the project.
```

Doing this would involve designing physical packaging for the sensor device while taking the physical environment of the industrial machine into account, and the precise placement of the sensors would require in-depth knowledge about the machine at hand.
Apart from this, the sensor device and gateway have been designed to be easy to install and start operating as soon as they receive power.
The sensor device is trivial to power on since it is battery powered, while the gateway requires power from a socket.
The placement of the gateway is relatively unrestricted since the ESP32 and Raspberry Pi communicate using Wi-Fi.

> After the hardware has been placed and powered on, the sensor devices should be configured to match the machines they are monitoring, and the system was designed to allow for configurations to be updated remotely to make this process as straightforward as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the hardware has been placed and powered on, the sensor devices should be configured to match the machines they are monitoring, and the system was designed to allow for configurations to be updated remotely to make this process as effortless as possible.
```

To sum up, the system lives up to the three qualities described by the problem statement.
That being said, the purpose of the system was to verify if predictive maintenance is applicable for a given company.
This quality has not been demonstrated since we have not performed data analysis of the collected data and verified whether or not maintenance could be predicted.

> However, whether or not the collected data could be used for predictive maintenance can be discussed based on the maximum sample rate test described in \autoref{sec:max-sample-rate-test}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, whether or not the collected data could be used for predictive maintenance can be discussed based on the maximum sample rate test described in~\autoref{sec:max-sample-rate-test}.
```

The test showed that the maximum vibration frequency the system can measure was on the low end compared to the frequencies commonly required for vibration analysis.
The test was furthermore unable to identify the source of this limitation and further testing should be conducted to locate the issue.

\subsection{Future Work}\label{sec:discussion-future-work}
There are several aspects of the system which could be further developed and some of these are discussed in this section.
 

> As described in \autoref{sec:implementation-frontend}, the battery levels displayed on the UI are mocked data, and the displayed values should instead correspond to the actual battery levels of the sensor devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As described in~\autoref{sec:implementation-frontend}, the battery levels displayed on the UI are mocked data, and the displayed values should instead correspond to the actual battery levels of the sensor devices.
```

In relation to this, more precise measurements of the sensor device's power consumption should be conducted.

> As mentioned in \autoref{sec:sprint-log-3}, the latest experiments were conducted using the ESP32 development board, which is comprised of additional components that consume power.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned in~\autoref{sec:sprint-log-3}, the latest experiments were conducted using the ESP32 development board, which is comprised of additional components that consume power.
```

> New measurements should therefore be made with the ESP32 microcontroller alone to provide more precise guarantees about the battery lifetime of the sensor devices.

Reviewer: Måske tilføje at det er uden development board delen

Author: ```suggestion
New measurements should therefore be made with the ESP32 without the development board to provide more precise guarantees about the battery lifetime of the sensor devices.
```

> The system currently only contains firmware for the MPU-6050 sensor (accelerometer), and firmware for additional sensors should be developed for the system to support maintenance of machines that require other methods than vibration analysis.

Reviewer: MPU-6050 er mere end bare accelerometer, det er jo også gyroscope

Author: ```suggestion
The system currently only contains firmware for the MPU-6050 sensor, and firmware for additional sensors should be developed for the system to support maintenance of machines that require other methods than vibration analysis.
```

This increment to the system could be combined with functionality allowing the system architect to update the firmware of the sensor devices remotely, i.e. Over-The-Air updates.
This functionality would significantly improve the usability of the system should updates be necessary, since updating the firmware of each sensor device otherwise would be a cumbersome task.

The system's user interface can also be further developed.
Because the system should be multitenant, i.e. be used by multiple customers, the UI should display a separate interface for each customer.

> Furthermore, if the UI is to be used by different actors, as described in \autoref{sec:usability-test} (\nameref{sec:usability-test}), the system should offer a login feature for each actor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, if the UI is to be used by different actors, as described in~\autoref{sec:usability-test} (\nameref{sec:usability-test}), the system should offer a login feature for each actor.
```

Furthermore, GCP's services introduced high QoS with their guarantees for uptime and scalability.
One downside of working with GCP, however, was that the documentation of how to use their services contained a lot of deprecated code examples and was generally of poor quality which made it difficult to work with.
However, at its current state, the system depends too much on GCP; should Google for example choose to increase the prices of their services, then so will the cost of the system.
In this manner, the system suffers from Cloud lock-in, a situation in which it is not straightforward to move the system's functionality to another cloud provider.
One possible way to mitigate this would be to develop components which could replace the services provided by GCP, i.e. IoT Core, Pub/Sub and Datastore.
These components could then themselves be hosted by GCP, but could be moved to another provider should the need arise.
Alternatively, the cloud provider could be removed entirely from the picture and the application could be hosted on a local server, e.g. one maintained by Neurospace Aps who has an interest in providing this solution for their customers.

> In this case, however, the system would lose the QoS benefits of using a cloud provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the system would lose the QoS benefits of using a cloud provider.
```
